 EffortlessEnglishClub.com 1 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
The Art of Power Vocabulary Text 

 

Hello, this is AJ.  Welcome to the vocabulary lesson for “The Art of Power.”  Let’s get 
started right away, here we go. 

 

Our first word is subconscious.  We’ve talked about this word already several times, so 
I’ll review it quickly.  Subconscious means the deep part of your mind.  It’s the deep 
emotions, the deep thoughts.  They’re not at the top of your mind, you’re not thinking 
about them.  You don’t realize that they are there, they’re deep down.   

 

And then, of course, the other kind of mind or consciousness is your conscious mind.  
Your conscious mind is what you are thinking about right now.  You know what you’re 
thinking about.  You can kind of see it or hear it in your brain.  But the subconscious is 
deeper.  You don’t see it or hear it immediately, it’s not obvious.  So that’s 
subconscious. 

 

Our next word is dormant, dormant.  So Thich Nhat Hanh said that often these seeds 
of anger or the seeds of violence or the seeds of sadness and depression, often they 
are dormant.  Dormant means sleeping.  Quite simply it means sleeping, so, again, 
dormant.  If the seeds are dormant it means they’re sleeping.  They’re not growing, 
they’re not active.  They’re not awake they are sleeping, so dormant means sleeping.   

 

You hear this word with volcanoes sometimes.  They’ll say it’s a dormant volcano.  
Volcano is a big mountain, right?  It explodes sometimes.  Well if it’s a dormant 
volcano it’s a sleeping volcano.  It’s not exploding, there’s nothing happening, it’s 
asleep.  Okay, so dormant, again, dormant means sleeping or asleep. 

 

Our next word is formation, formation.  He says that when these negative emotions, 
these negative seeds are fed or watered, when you give them energy they become 
mental formations.  So a formation is just a thing, an organized thing.  So, in other 
words, they become real things.  They become alive, they become awake, they 
become real things.   

 

So before you had this seed of anger, but you weren’t angry.  It’s down there, it’s 
asleep, nothing is happening.  But then maybe you watched the news or you’re around 
a lot of angry people and then suddenly that seed starts growing.  And now anger 
becomes real, it becomes a mental formation, it becomes a real idea.  It becomes a 
real feeling in your brain, in your mind.  So, again, formation is something that is real 
and organized, something that exists in reality. 

 


 EffortlessEnglishClub.com 2 
 

All right, our next word is manifest.  We’ve had this before.  To manifest means to 
become real.  Again, a very similar idea.  So if you say anger manifests in your mind, it 
means it becomes real in your mind, it becomes alive.  So here we’re using manifest 
as a verb, it’s the action.  Formation was a noun, it’s the actual thing.  But manifest, to 
manifest, means to become real.  It’s an action, it’s a verb.   

 

All right, next is the word trigger, to trigger.  I believe we have talked about this word 
before, so I’ll review it quickly, to trigger.  He says “the environment can trigger the 
seeds of anger.  The environment can trigger the seeds of depression or sadness.”  
So, to trigger, means to turn on, to turn on. 

 

So before the anger is asleep, it’s dormant.  Something happens, it triggers the anger.  
It turns on the anger.  Now the anger is awake, now the anger is on.  It was triggered.  
So, again, to trigger means to suddenly turn on, to cause something to turn on. 

 

Our next word is craving, craving.  He says “If you live in a positive environment then 
the seeds of craving are not watered easily.”  Craving means desire, it means wanting 
something a lot, wanting, wanting, wanting.  But it has a negative feeling.  It’s kind of a 
negative word.  So it means wanting something that’s not healthy, wanting something 
too much. 

 

So, for example, I crave fat foods.  I crave lots of money.  It means you must have it.  
You really, really, really want it and you’re constantly thinking about it.  So here I’m 
using it as a verb, to crave.  To crave means to want a lot, to want too much.  It really 
has this idea of too much.  You want too much, you’re obsessed.  So craving is a noun 
and to crave, the verb, to want too much. 

 

Our next word is diligence.  Diligence really means discipline.  It means self-control, 
control of yourself, control of your thoughts and control of your desires and control of 
your emotions.  It’s discipline, self-discipline.  So, again, that’s diligence.   

 

Diligence also has the idea of being careful, right?  It means being careful.  And the 
adjective is diligent, diligent.  If you say “He is a diligent person” it means he is a very 
careful person, very disciplined, very careful.  The opposite would be reckless.  Not 
careful, just totally doing anything and never thinking about it, never being careful.  
That’s the opposite.  So diligent, again, means disciplined and very careful.  Diligent is 
the adjective, diligence is the noun.    

 

So Thich Nhat Hanh says “We need diligence to be happy.”  It means we need to have 
discipline.  We need to control our environment more.  We have to be careful.  We 
have to be disciplined.  We have to be controlled about what we watch and what we 
read.  We have to be diligent about our friends.  We have to be careful that we choose 
positive friends.  We have to be disciplined. 

 

 


 EffortlessEnglishClub.com 3 
 

Okay, our next word is suppress.  He says “Be careful, don’t water the negative 
seeds.”  But he says “Also, don’t suppress them.”  Don’t suppress.  Suppress means 
to push down by force.  It means to use force, to push down.   

 

So, for example, you feel angry, you’re starting to feel angry, right?  It’s already 
happening.  It’s too late its happening.  I’m angry err!  Well if you suppress anger it 
means you ha-ah, ho-ah, mmmhhh and you don’t say anything, right?  You push the 
anger down.  You don’t say anything, you don’t do anything.  You don’t show your 
anger, you pretend.  You are angry, but you pretend you’re not.   

 

That’s suppression, the noun, suppression.  Or the verb is to suppress.  You are 
suppressing your anger, you’re pushing it down.  You’re pretending it’s not there.  You 
are angry, but you’re pretending you’re not.  So that’s not healthy, that’s not good.  So 
Thich Nhat Hanh is saying don’t suppress your anger.  If it comes up, if it’s too late it 
already came up, well then you have to be honest and be open.  Yes, I’m angry.  You 
don’t push it down.  You don’t pretend you’re not angry because you’ll give yourself a 
heart attack, it’s very unhealthy. 

 

But he’s saying what you want to do is prevent the anger from happening, stop it 
before it happens.  So by feeding yourself a lot of positive thoughts, a lot of positive 
videos, a lot of positive books, a lot of positive people, the anger won’t come up.  But if 
it does come up don’t suppress it, don’t push it down.   

 

Okay, our final word is wholesome, wholesome.  He says you want to find a lot of 
wholesome influences.  You want to find wholesome books.  You want to find 
wholesome elements within you and within your environment.  You want to be around 
wholesome people.  Wholesome means good and healthy, good and healthy, 
wholesome.  So, again, wholesome means good and healthy. 

 

So, for example, wholesome food, you should eat wholesome food.  It means you 
should eat good and healthy food, wholesome food.  Or he’s a very wholesome 
person.  He’s a very good and healthy person.  Wholesome.   

 

Okay, well that is all for our vocabulary lesson for “The Art of Power.”  Listen to it a few 
times so you understand the vocabulary and then listen and focus on the other lessons 
in this lesson pack.  I’ll talk to you later. 

 
